Create a new Microsoft.DotNet.SharedFramework.Sdk for creating shared frameworks (#5714)
dotnet/arcade: src/Microsoft.DotNet.SharedFramework.Sdk/README.md

### Platform Manifest generation

Since platform manifest generation can be tricky at times when a shared framework has differing files per platform, this SDK provides two different mechanisms for generating a platform manifest, templating or harvesting.

Pros of harvesting:

- Simple declaration in the project file.
  - You define a property in the targeting pack project that points to the runtime pack project. The SDK will determine all of the files that the runtime pack project produces on RIDs that this build will produce.
- Less friction when adding files to the manifest.
  - Files will be automatically added by the harvesting process.

Cons of harvesting:

- Either all runtime pack RIDs must be buildable from a single invocation or one RID must have a superset of all files in the targeting pack.

Pros of templating:

- All files can be declared to be in the manifest without needing every file on disk.
- Targeting pack can be built independently of the runtime pack.

> - Ensures that every file in a runtime pack is a known file in the manifest.

Reviewer: Big pro: the opposite of `all runtime pack RIDs must be buildable from a single invocation`, you can build the full platform manifest with a single machine. This is implied by the first bullet I suppose, but this is critical for source-build (it will allow us to build the targeting pack using dotnet/runtime rather than decompiling it into IL code to ship!) so might be worth mentioning.

Cons of templating:

- Each file has to be declared with an MSBuild item.
- File and assembly fallback versions need to be declared for files that do not exist in the targeting pack.
- Any change in the list of files requires a new MSBuild item declaring the entry.

### Platform Manifest Harvesting

For platforms where all target platforms have the same files
or where one platform has a superset of the files available
on all platforms, we can generate a platform manifest from
the present files in the runtime pack.

This is enabled by default or when `UseTemplatedPlatformManifest` is not set to `true`.

Set the `RuntimePackProjectPath` to the path to the runtime pack shared framework project.

If you only want to use one RID to generate the platform manifest, you can set

> the `RuntimePackPlatformForManifest` property to the RID you'd like to use.

Reviewer: Line wrapping, suddenly? Line wrapping is nice, and I think if you do you should stick to 80 chars to accomodate everyone. (I use VS Code `stkb.rewrap` for docs FWIW.)

Author: This line wrapping was from when I copied this from the inline docs I had in MSBuild. I'll fix it.

If the chosen RID doesn't have a superset of files for all shipping platforms,
then you may have unexpected behavior when using the produced targeting pack.

### Templated Platform Manifest

For shared frameworks with differing sets of files on various platforms
and with no single platform that contains all of the files, this SDK provides support
for creating a platform manifest from a templated list of items.

Assumptions:

- All managed assemblies are either present in both the ref and runtime pack for the shared framework
    or have an easily calculatable assembly version and file version.
- All native files have an easily calculatable file version.

> To use, set `UseTemplatedPlatformManifes`t to true and define a set of `PlatformManifestFileEntry` items

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use, set `UseTemplatedPlatformManifest` to true and define a set of `PlatformManifestFileEntry` items
```

- `ToolPack`: This pack option allows you to have completely custom scripting for what files are included where in your pack. It also enables creating installer-only projects with this SDK.

This SDK uses the standard mechanisms in the .NET SDK for referencing packages, projects, and other frameworks to resolve its dependencies and collect the files that are a part of the pack. To include native files, add them to the `NativeRuntimeAsset` item group.

If you need to resolve additional managed assemblies, you can add them to the `ReferenceCopyLocalPaths` item group for runtime packs or `ReferencePath` for targeting packs. XML documentation files can be added to the `DocFilesToPackage` item group. If you need to resolve your assemblies in a target, you can define your own target to resolve them. To enable these files to have ReadyToRun code generated for them for a runtime pack, update the `GetSharedFrameworkFilesForReadyToRunDependsOn` property to include your targets in a semicolon-delimited list. If you are adding additional files to a targeting pack, add `BeforeTargets="GetFilesToPackage"` to the target definition.

### Platform Manifest generation

> Since platform manifest generation can be tricky at times when a shared framework has differing files per platform, this SDK provides two different mechanisms for generating a platform manifest, templating or harvesting.

Reviewer 2: Very cool that both are supported! Presumably in case of templating we ensure that the final list is accurate, at least that nothing is missing.  Not sure if we'd ever have a joined state of the build to ensure that there aren't any extras.

Author: Yep! We support both because templating makes sense for dotnet/runtime, but harvesting makes sense for builds like dotnet/windowsdesktop that pull in packages to construct the packs. The templating system ensures that every file is included in the list.

We can't ensure that we don't have extras since there's never a joined build, but I don't think it particularly matters because we rarely remove files, and when we do they likely still have to be listed. (For example, the Microsoft.NETCore.App shared framework has to have the old native libraries file names listed)

Reviewer: > We can't ensure that we don't have extras since there's never a joined build

If we keep track of which platform *should have* created each templated entry, we can, as long as we can assume that each platform will build once in CI to verify there are no extras. This was what I was planning in https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/issues/1622.

Now, is that worth it? Different question. 🙂

or where one platform has a superset of the files available
on all platforms, we can generate a platform manifest from
the present files in the runtime pack.

This is enabled by default or when `UseTemplatedPlatformManifest` is not set to `true`.

Set the `RuntimePackProjectPath` to the path to the runtime pack shared framework project.

If you only want to use one RID to generate the platform manifest, you can set
the `RuntimePackPlatformForManifest` property to the RID you'd like to use.
If the chosen RID doesn't have a superset of files for all shipping platforms,
then you may have unexpected behavior when using the produced targeting pack.

### Templated Platform Manifest

For shared frameworks with differing sets of files on various platforms
and with no single platform that contains all of the files, this SDK provides support
for creating a platform manifest from a templated list of items.

Assumptions:

- All managed assemblies are either present in both the ref and runtime pack for the shared framework
    or have an easily calculatable assembly version and file version.
- All native files have an easily calculatable file version.

> To use, set `UseTemplatedPlatformManifes`t to true and define a set of `PlatformManifestFileEntry` items

Reviewer 2: Would it be possible for a hybrid where we only list the items which are unique and let common items be harvested?  If we did this and validated it it, that might eliminate the need for explicit selection of modes.

Author: I'm not sure what you mean here. Do you mean that we harvest the files from the targeting pack and then template the rest? Or that we harvest from whatever platform we're on and use the template as a baseline for the missing files?

I'm slightly concerned about both of those options. I prefer the design of either being fully implicit (harvest the runtime packs) or fully explicit (templating). I fear allowing a mix of the two might cause some of the data to be generated inconsistently depending on which platform you build the ref pack on (in particular with file versions).

Reviewer 2: Basically I'm thinking how we might allow harvesting without needing every single runtime available while minimizing the checked in template (which presumably needs to define versions and some way to calculate them).  I'm not worried about inconsistency since anything with the template *must* be an accurate representation of the actual content.

Author: So there's a process to defining versions for files:

1. By default, if a file is in the ref pack, we assume that the runtime pack will have the same version.
2. The developer can specify a fallback assembly or file version if any items don't have versions and need to have assembly or file versions.
3. The developer can specify versions for specific files if they aren't present in the ref pack.

The other reason to avoid harvesting is that harvesting more than just the current target platform is not compatible with source-build to my knowledge. And since we don't need file versions or assembly versions for native files on non-Windows, harvesting on non-Windows only isn't worth it IMO.
